docs/index.rst, before:

.. RackHD documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sat Aug 29 13:07:25 2015.

.. image:: _static/theme/img/logo.png
   :height: 200
   :align: center

RackHD™
==========

**VIDEO:** `Introduction to RackHD`_

.. _Introduction to RackHD: https://www.youtube.com/embed/cCiXtROSt8U

RackHD is a technology stack for enabling automated hardware management and
orchestration through cohesive APIs. It serves as an abstraction layer between
other management layers and the underlying, vendor-specific physical hardware.

Developers can use the RackHD APIs to incorporate RackHD functionality into a
larger orchestration system or to create a user interface for managing hardware
services regardless of the underlying hardware in place.

The project is housed at https://github.com/RackHD/ and available under the
Apache 2.0 license (or compatible sublicenses for library dependencies). This
RackHD documentation is hosted at http://rackhd.readthedocs.io.


Contents
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :titlesonly:

   rackhd_overview
   tech_inside/index
   support_matrix
   quick_guide
   run_rackhd/index
   rackhd_api/index
   redfish_api/index
   server_workflow/index
   switch_workflow/index
   extend_service/index
   web_ui/index
   dev_guide/index
   rackhd_vlab/index
   customer_support/index
   solution_center/index
   contributing

RackHD is a Trademark of Dell EMC Corporation.

Commit message:

Hide solution center section and show TOC for each top title in left nav-tree

docs/index.rst, after:

.. RackHD documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sat Aug 29 13:07:25 2015.

.. image:: _static/theme/img/logo.png
   :height: 200
   :align: center

RackHD™
==========

**VIDEO:** `Introduction to RackHD`_

.. _Introduction to RackHD: https://www.youtube.com/embed/cCiXtROSt8U

RackHD is a technology stack for enabling automated hardware management and
orchestration through cohesive APIs. It serves as an abstraction layer between
other management layers and the underlying, vendor-specific physical hardware.

Developers can use the RackHD APIs to incorporate RackHD functionality into a
larger orchestration system or to create a user interface for managing hardware
services regardless of the underlying hardware in place.

The project is housed at https://github.com/RackHD/ and available under the
Apache 2.0 license (or compatible sublicenses for library dependencies). This
RackHD documentation is hosted at http://rackhd.readthedocs.io.


Contents
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :titlesonly:

   rackhd_overview
   tech_inside/index
   support_matrix
   quick_guide
   run_rackhd/index
   rackhd_api/index
   redfish_api/index
   server_workflow/index
   switch_workflow/index
   extend_service/index
   web_ui/index
   dev_guide/index
   rackhd_vlab/index
   customer_support/index
   .. Remove "solution center" section at present and will get it online after content prepared
     solution_center/index
   contributing

RackHD is a Trademark of Dell EMC Corporation.
