docs/rackhd/graphs.rst, before:

Workflows
---------------------------

Workflow Graphs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The workflow graph definition specifies the order in which tasks should run and provides
any context and/or option values to pass to these functions.

Complex graphs may define event-based tasks or specify
data/event channels that should exist between concurrently-run tasks.

Defining Graphs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Graphs are defined via a JSON definition that conform to this schema:

- friendlyName (string): a human readable name for the graph
- injectableName (string): a unique name used by the system and the API to refer to the graph
- tasks (array of objects): a list of task definitions or references to task definitions.

  - tasks.label (string): a unique string to be used as a reference within the graph definition
  - tasks.\[taskName\] (string): the injectableName of a task in the database to run. This or taskDefinition is required.
  - tasks.\[taskDefinition\] (object): an inline definition of a task, instead of one in the database. This or taskName is required.
  - tasks.\[ignoreFailure\] (boolean): ignoreFailure: true will prevent the graph from failing on task failure
  - tasks.\[waitOn\] (object): key/value pairs referencing other task labels to desired states of those tasks to trigger running on. Available states are *succeeded*, *failed* and *finished* (run on succeeded or failed). If waitOn is not specified, the task will run on graph start.

- [options]

  - options.\[defaults\] (object): key, value pairs that will be handed to any tasks that have matching option keys
  - options.\<label\> (object): key, value pairs that should all be handed to a specific task


API Commands for Graphs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following are common API commands that can be used when running the *on-http* process.


**Get Available Graphs in the Library**

::

    GET /api/1.1/workflows/library

::

    curl <server>/api/1.1/workflows/library

**Query the State of An Active Graph**

::

        GET /api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows/active

::

        curl <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows/active


**Create a Graph Definition**

::

        PUT /api/1.1/workflows
        {
            <json definition of graph>
        }


**Run a New Graph Against a Node**

Find the graph definition you would like to use and copy the top-level *injectableName* attribute.

::

    POST /api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows
    {
        name: <graph name>
    }


::

    curl -X POST <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows?name=<graphname>
    OR
    curl -X POST \
        -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        -d '{"name": "<graphname>"}' \
        <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows

Sample Output:

.. literalinclude:: samples/serialized-graph-example.json
   :language: JSON

Commit message:

commands to see past workflows and to kill a workflow

docs/rackhd/graphs.rst, after:

Workflows
---------------------------

Workflow Graphs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The workflow graph definition specifies the order in which tasks should run and provides
any context and/or option values to pass to these functions.

Complex graphs may define event-based tasks or specify
data/event channels that should exist between concurrently-run tasks.

Defining Graphs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Graphs are defined via a JSON definition that conform to this schema:

- friendlyName (string): a human readable name for the graph
- injectableName (string): a unique name used by the system and the API to refer to the graph
- tasks (array of objects): a list of task definitions or references to task definitions.

  - tasks.label (string): a unique string to be used as a reference within the graph definition
  - tasks.\[taskName\] (string): the injectableName of a task in the database to run. This or taskDefinition is required.
  - tasks.\[taskDefinition\] (object): an inline definition of a task, instead of one in the database. This or taskName is required.
  - tasks.\[ignoreFailure\] (boolean): ignoreFailure: true will prevent the graph from failing on task failure
  - tasks.\[waitOn\] (object): key/value pairs referencing other task labels to desired states of those tasks to trigger running on. Available states are *succeeded*, *failed* and *finished* (run on succeeded or failed). If waitOn is not specified, the task will run on graph start.

- [options]

  - options.\[defaults\] (object): key, value pairs that will be handed to any tasks that have matching option keys
  - options.\<label\> (object): key, value pairs that should all be handed to a specific task


API Commands for Graphs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following are common API commands that can be used when running the *on-http* process.


**Get Available Graphs in the Library**

::

    GET /api/1.1/workflows/library

::

    curl <server>/api/1.1/workflows/library

**Query the State of an Active Graph**

::

        GET /api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows/active

::

        curl <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows/active


**Cancel or Kill an Active Graph**

::

        DELETE /api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows/active

::

        curl -X DELETE <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows/active


**All graphs that have run for a node**

::

        GET /api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows

::

        curl <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows


**Create a Graph Definition**

::

        PUT /api/1.1/workflows
        {
            <json definition of graph>
        }


**Run a New Graph Against a Node**

Find the graph definition you would like to use and copy the top-level *injectableName* attribute.

::

    POST /api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows
    {
        name: <graph name>
    }


::

    curl -X POST <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows?name=<graphname>
    OR
    curl -X POST \
        -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        -d '{"name": "<graphname>"}' \
        <server>/api/1.1/nodes/<id>/workflows

Sample Output:

.. literalinclude:: samples/serialized-graph-example.json
   :language: JSON
